Code Book 
=================

The file `sensor_means_and_std_grouped_by_activity_and_subject.txt` is generated by the `run_analysis.R` script.
It contains summary information from the [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones). The raw file from which this data set is generated is available: [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip). 

The script takes care of downloading the data. Run the script in the following
manner from R: 

```
source("run_analysis.R")
```

## Format

The rows of the file are separated by UNIX newline characters ('\n'). The columns of the file are separated tabs. 
The first line of the file is the header. 

## Transformations

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names. 
5. Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

## Variables

The first column of the file is a categorical variable representing the activity that a volunteer performed while wearing a smartphone. The six possible values are:
* WALKING
* WALKING_UPSTAIRS
* WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
* SITTING
* STANDING
* LAYING


The second column of the file is the subject identifier. It is an integer value that uniquely identifies one of the volunteers.

The remaining columns are averages of the mean and standard deviation features from the raw data set aggregated for each unique subject, activity combination. These are continuous variables in the domain: [-1, 1]. There are no missing values


